- [Instructor] Let us now understand
generic class hierarchies but before that,
let's do a quick recap of Java inheritance.
When you implement inheritance with Java,
you can always assign an object of the child class
to a reference variable of the parent class.
So let's say you have a class called Animal.
This is the super class, and you're going
to have a Dog, class which is derived out of Animal.
So Dog is the sub-class.
When you have this kind of a relationship,
you can write a line of code like this,
Animal animal = new Dog, which means you have an object
of the dog, which is the sub-class,
and you can refer to it by a variable
of the type Animal, which is the superclass.
Additionally, in inheritance with Java,
you can always pass child class as an argument
to a method that accepts the parent class as a parameter.
Let's understand this.
Let's say you have a class called AnimalUtils
and inside that, you have a static method called walk.
This walk method accepts a parameter of the Animal type,
which in our case is the super class.
When you invoke this method,
you can write code like this,
AnimalUtils.walk and inside that,
you're passing an argument,
which is an object of the Dog class.
Now, let's talk about generic class hierarchies.
Generic classes can always be a part of any hierarchy.
So they behave the same as non-generic classes,
and the rules of inheritance
that we saw a minute ago will apply
to all generic class hierarchies as well.
However, there are key differences
and some rules that we need to take care of.
Let's see them one by one.
The first is a generic sub-class must always pass
the type-parameters up the hierarchy.
Let's understand this.
We know that list of E and ArrayList
of E are connected together
by the inheritance relationship in the Java APIs.
Now, let's say you choose to write your custom
list implementation that extends the ArrayList class.
In that case, your code should look like this, public class.
The custom list implementation class is CustomList.
So CustomList of E extends ArrayList of E.
So the type-parameter, E, that we have defined
on the CustomList class is also defined
as the type-parameter for the super class ArrayList
in the extends clause.
It is perfectly all right if you do not want
to use this E type-parameter anywhere
in the CustomList class.
So even if the sub-class need not be generic,
it still has to pass the type-parameters
to support the super class.
If you choose not to do this, then you write code like this,
public class CustomList extends ArrayList
but in that case, you are making a raw use
of the parameterized ArrayList class,
and we've already learned in our first module,
never use raw types when we write code with generics.
The next rule is that a generic sub-class
can always extend a non-generic parent class.
So let's say you have a line of code like this,
public class, sub-class of T extends Superclass.
Now, the super class here is a non-generic class
but on the sub-class, we have a type-parameter, T, defined,
and this is perfectly fine.
A special case is when you have a generic sub-class
that specifies a type-argument on the super class directly
in the extents or implements clause.
Let's see how.
There's a class called IntComparator,
and this implements the comparator interface of Java.
If you see in the implements clause,
we have specified the type-argument of Integer.
This is totally possible.
This also means that IntComparator class is a generic class.
However, these kind of situations are really rare.
The next rule is sub-class
can always declare more type-parameters.
So if you have a declaration like this,
public class CustomList of E, S extends ArrayList of E.
In this case, we see that the E type-parameter
is definitely declared on the custom list
because it has to support the E type-parameter
of the super class, but CustomList also has
an additional type-parameter that is S,
which it uses for its own implementation.
Lastly, casting is permitted.
This means that an object of a generic sub-class
can be referred to by a variable of a generic super class.
Let's understand that with an example.
Let's say you have a variable data
which is off the type List of String.
On the next line, you write a line like this,
ArrayList of String.
The variable name is Languages, and that is instantiated
to an ArrayList class that is new ArrayList of String.
You can always then assign the Language is variable
to the data variable.
This is totally possible, and this is
the same inheritance rule
that we anyway see with Java inheritance.
Let's do a quick and short demo
for the generic class hierarchies.
The first step is to create a class,
CardboardBox, that extends Box.
So now, we are going to create
an inheritance relationship between our generic classes.
For that, we'll have to create a new class, CardboardBox.
So let's head back to the IDE
and on a package, let's create a class.
Let's call it CardboardBox,
and this should extend the Box class.
Now, observe something here.
If I just say extends Box,
I immediately get a warning from the compiler,
and it says that I'm making raw use
of the parameters-class Box.
This is something that you do not want to do.
We never want to use raw types in our code.
So this has to be Box of T.
The class that we are extending has to be Box of T
and now, when you extend from a generic super class,
then the rule is that the sub-class,
which is CardboardBox in our case,
has to specify the type-parameters up the hierarchy.
Means it has to specify the type-parameters
that were already defined on the super class, Box.
So we will do that.
So we'll say T extends Boxable
because that was the pounded type
that was defined on our Box class.
So we are all set.
This is how you create a generic sub-class.
Remember that you always need your sub-class
to pass those type-parameters that
have already been defined on the super class.
Next step is to override the getTotalWeight method.
Now that we've created an inheritance relationship,
we can always go and override methods in the sub-class.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Let's come inside this CardboardBox class,
and I'm just going to type in the getTotalWeight words,
and the method definition should get generated.
So this is the overridden method.
We are not going to implement
any special logic in this method.
What I can only do is.
Let's say, return super.getTotalWeight
and let's add 100 grams of weight to this.
Why 100 grams?
Because this is the weight of the cardboard box itself.
So that gets added to the total weight.
Right, so that's the simple logic,
and the last step will be,
then we'll create an instance of the cardboard box,
and we will assign it to a Box reference.
So this casting now, should totally work.
Let's go ahead.
Let's create a new test class
because this is a separate module.
So let's create a fresh test class now.
Let's say TestGeneric. Let's spell that correctly.
Hierarchies. Let's write the main method.
Now, we are going to create two boxes.
Let's say CardboardBox of Fruit.
Let's call it CardboardBox, and then let's go ahead
and say CardboardBox instantiation
with the diamond operator.
So you don't have to mention the type-argument again.
Next, let's also create a box of Fruit,
the same type-argument.
Let's call it FruitBox and instantiate that again,
and what we are going to try now is
we'll say FruitBox is equal to CardboardBox.
So what we did is we assigned
the CardboardBox variable to the FruitBox variable,
and this is totally possible.
This is casting that is allowed
in generic class hierarchies.
You have an object of the generic sub-class
on line number five that you are trying to refer to
by a variable of the generic super class.
That's what we did, and this is totally allowed.